[Applause]
you're trying of go back to your
question of are we ready to edit our
genomes so and towards the end of the
book you write as of this writing by the
time this book is published I would not
be surprised if the first successful
targeted genome modification of a human
embryo had been achieved the sentence
says ends in a laboratory yeah but do
you then continue the first quote post
genomic human might be on his or her way
to being bored so I want to ask by the
way when he I had expected it in the
first five orders it was achieved within
the first five odd weeks of the
publication of this book so just just to
remind us of the pace of the technology
and there's some debate whether there's
a massive debate going on whether that
first first attempt second attempt
whether they were whether they were
actually achieved what they had achieved
or not in the scientific field there's a
debate going on whether in fact they
really added the the genes of the
embryos that were there were if you're
looking through the details there's
something that don't make entire sense
so there's that debate and that will
continue for a while right but in terms
of children being born with apparently a
serious attempts to edit the genome not
in the CRISPR cast nine very precisely
but in mitochondrial diseases and
mitochondrial replacement therapy so
rather than very precisely going after a
single gene even though it is a single
gene if it's in containing the
mitochondria why not replace the whole
mitochondria and their least have been
reports of to three children being born
one of whom apparently meets these
criteria extraordinary suffering an
inheritable devastating childhood
syndrome Lee disease which is fatal
confidence in the gene equals the
disease in that family there had been a
history of children being born and dying
and the mutation was understood and I
guess the question I would also rewrite
your question that you posed on your
cards I hope you're filling out your
cards passing into the outside aisles uh
for the mother she I think said I am
ready to edit my genome and I guess the
other question is as the scientist at
the fertility center and the biological
PhDs
were they ready should they have helped
her so could you talk about what the are
we ready the different ways are
different acting well so the answer is
as I said I personally was rather
surprised that the National Academy this
was not a you know the National Academy
is not some kind of body that sits it's
not a body that sits in space it's made
of scientists and people who work in
ethics people who work in people who
physicians they took they brought in
inputs from patients from these patient
advocates so this was a highly
considered decision in in the gene as I
said before the report was released it's
interesting that this triangle I talked
about the triangle if I can remember
what they were what my proposed trying
who was I'll yeah it's interesting here
it is this is it's as a triangle of
considerations extraordinary suffering
highly penetrant genotypes and
justifiable intervention has thus far
constrained our attempts to intervene on
humans as we loosen the boundaries of
this triangle by changing the standards
for extraordinary suffering or
justifiable interest into interventions
for say we need new biological cultural
and social precepts to determine which
genetic interventions may be permitted
or constrained
and the circumstances in which these
interventions become safe or permissible
so this was this is from the book
written about six to eight months before
the National Academy report so the
answer is I think that I think that
people people are struggling through
their individual decisions about these
questions forum for for a mother of in a
family where you were devastating
medical disease where you have a
extraordinary suffering nearly 100
percent penetrance there is no other
justifiable interventions it's not like
this child can have a surgical procedure
or a medical procedure that will
alleviate this child suffering clearly
the decision this mother made was to go
ahead and change the genetic information
of her embryo the those questions i
think are going to become even more
amplified as we start pushing against
the boundaries of what extraordinary
suffering is an art the one thing i want
to make very clear is that it is
absolutely true and how the others have
written but I've written about it myself
is absolutely true that you know gene
editing technologies CRISPR and cows
nine kinds of technologies have pushed
these questions to the frontier but you
can achieve very similar ends by genetic
selection anyway you could choose not to
have a child that bears without any
CRISPR without any gene editing
technologies you could choose to
sequence your embryos or potentially
your sperm producing cells or your egg
producing cells and not have certain
kinds of genomes represented in your
future generation so the one of the
points that I was trying to make is that
these technologies really are intersect
or intersect with each other you can you
should really think of them as parts of
a whole just as you think of your
child's capacity to master language in
part as learning to read learning to get
meaning and learning
- right but ultimately what happens is
the child masters language and then
begins to use portions of that mastery
in whatever direction he or she wants to
do sometimes reading sometimes writing
sometimes learning information going and
finding new information etc but the
technologies that allow us to make
deliberately deliberate changes in the
human genome exist even without CRISPR
and Kaz 9 they will become amplified
with gene editing technologies they will
become even further amplified when we
make synthetic DNA in that in the in
those larger versions but they already
exist you can choose to not have a child
in your family if you were if you had
cystic fibrosis in a family you could
choose to not carry a child with a
double mutation you might be I choose to
have a child as a carrier but it used to
do that one of the wonderful things
about your book to me at least was the
geographical suite it started with a
wonderful chapter that the settings
India you then moved to Europe with
Mendel Nazi Germany the UK America with
the the Box story this is really a sort
of a global issue and I wonder if the
answer to your question are we ready to
edit our genomes has different answers
in different countries and cultures so
that in some countries as in the US the
FDA has put very heavy restrictions on
approving of the use of the these
techniques for for embryo manipulation
other countries I think will have very
different perspectives new Ukraine
Mexico for example probably China India
China Korea are obviously of great
interest and concern here in fact the
part of the geographic reach of the book
the last picture in the book of all the
photographs is of a clinic in
a fertility clinic initially
unfortunates indicates just a a
pediatric clinic in China where every
single child is a male so that every
single child being a male in this video
at retinic occurs with no CRISPR with no
deep learning it occurs with a crude but
a crude eugenic desire to have male
children so you you see how powerful
even crude technologies how powerfully
even crude technologies could twist and
contort human demographics and so the
question of who the we are and whether
we changes from one place to the other
and and and in the question that I
raised in the book is and it's an
important question which is to remind
ourselves that privatized eugenics can
achieve exactly the same ends as
state-mandated eugenics and that's
because the desire for the aspirational
desire to perfect to have perfect
children lies in the locus of the
individual it does not lie there's some
desires that lie in the locus of this
state but this desire lies in the locus
of the individual and how is ancient so
it's not as if if we were to say to
ourselves oh you know let's remove the
the the the malignant state actor from
all of this and and move the technology
to the we that we would get over the
problem the problem is in the we the
problem lies in the we who are the we
and what is the we allowed to do what is
the we not allowed to do so the we
you're absolutely right is a crucial
point but it's just a reminder that by
getting to the we we don't escape the
question the quite the democratizing
privatizing equalizing information does
not solve the problem
I used the word equalizing of course
thoughtful
because there is a there is of course an
enormous possibility that only the rich
will have access to the technologies
that allowed them to sequence their
unborn children where the poor will not
what would happen in a world where
genetic diseases or any diseases or
diseases linked genes were progressively
segregated to the poor but we're not
segregated to the rich what if you know
chromosomal diseases started only
happening in the poor parts of a society
there was a there was not just income
inequality but genomic inequality across
but these are real obviously real
possibilities and so so the we becomes
extraordinary important but the we
doesn't solve the problem I know your
lab is actually working on genetic
modifications for use in therapy of
cancer and leukemia there are some
questions asking you to talk about of
the cartoon modifications of t-cells so
these are treatments for leukemia for
example where lot of cases were made to
help the body reject the cancer cells
out they're not inherited to the next
generation because there is this
permissible in ways that don't give us
the kind of pauses that germline
modification yeah there's simply simpler
so we we our laboratory because we work
on leukemia we've defined some of the
leukemic genes we made it very simple
it's a very simple idea I can now just
now disclose it because we now own the
we own the patent on it so the the the
idea is very simple but it has I think
it has some important ethical and and
other consequences the idea is that for
a long time as you know we were as a
society as a research community we were
looking for tumor antigens antigens that
were specific to a cancer cell were not
present in normal cells so we could use
those antigens as
who's to target to recognize to kill
tumors and in the leukemias that I study
in myeloid leukemias which are very
deadly they're very hard to find in fact
there one would I have argued and
there's an argument about this they
probably don't even exist so virtually
every antigen every sign every flag that
we found in a leukemia cell is also
present in normal stem cells so when you
go to kill the Leukemia using
immunological therapy you also killed
the normal stem cells and this was a big
crisis because you cannot deliver
leukemia specific cancer specific
therapy like you can for some other
cancers so for a long time we just sat
with this idea we didn't know what to do
with it and it was scratched our heads
about it how do you make a an immune
cell go and kill the cancer but not kill
the normal cell until of course CRISPR
came along and we suddenly realized but
what if you just took the normal cell
and you deleted the antigen from the
normal cell
so you basically manufactured a tumor
antigen you forced your body to create
an antigen only in the tumor cell and
you can do this because of some
peculiarities of stem cell biology which
wouldn't otherwise be true but you can
do it quite generally just to give you
an absurd example of this what if you
were to direct an antigen response an
immune response against your liver
cancer but synthesize an artificial
liver where that tumor that antigen was
deleted so that it wouldn't be a target
so we scratched our heads about this a
little bit more and using CRISPR began
to find out actually very doable it's
very feasible to do this you can
actually delete antigens at will the
ethical questions there are kind of
enormous which is who owns an antigen
your body makes it when you delete it
using CRISPR there particularly the
particulars of technology those tricks
of technology are truly synthetic by a
truly synthetic I mean they they are not
things that are found in nature you have
to make them from scratch so in that
case do does a biomedical researcher on
it because
he or she made it from scratch how do
you deploy this in patients or the
safety considerations etc etc so there's
another even though it doesn't address
some of the human genomic considerations
there are a whole nest of questions
there which we are now in the thick of
but hopefully we'll get some guidance
from about let me try and ask a
follow-on question so the goal of the
researcher lab is doing to ultimately
get therapies that are fda-approved and
can be used in patients to to treat
perhaps even cure diseases that process
of going from the discovery in your lab
to an fda-approved product that can be
marketed prescribed by physicians is a
long difficult complicated process it's
costly it takes time the patent clock is
running while it's being developed to
develop for a biotech company to develop
that product is extremely promising
product they need to make it a
financially feasible proposition which
means raising money for investors having
the prospect of selling the therapy at a
price that recoup some of the investment
so there in terms of who owns it if the
company doesn't have a clear field -
saying we are going to be able to have
an exclusive patent right to develop the
disease and so but then where does that
leave the person from who's sells the
the the technique with these were
discovered or if it's an actual patient
centered therapy that each patients gets
a different therapy or they're gonna be
so it depends on what value are you
asking Henrietta Lacks question I mean I
there are two kinds of questions here so
there's a Henrietta Lacks kind of
question it's an important kind of
questions so so so one thing that's
interesting is that that there are
technologies that
are extraordinarily dependent on
individual patient samples CRISPR
doesn't happen to be one of them for the
most part it doesn't happen to be one of
them gene editing doesn't happen to be
one of them there are others that are so
and you're absolutely right
in those arenas we've rediscovered
perhaps a little too late but we
discover that we've had been given any
credit whatsoever to the original
samples these the particular
technologies we're talking about happen
to happen to be relatively independent
of all of this but but there is a whole
arena and I would recommend obviously
I'm sure everyone's read back a scutes
book about how to understand giving back
[Music]
material rights to technologies that
emerge from physical objects cells etc
that emerge from individual patients
bodies that's a question that really
arises out of really question is that
arises when you manipulate individual
cells to produce things that are very
particular to those those individual
things antibodies for instance but this
doesn't happen to use them so a question
about the idea of extraordinary
suffering so editing our genome to
prevent or treat or we're a disease but
it causes extraordinary suffering seems
to me at one end of a spectrum and then
there's editing to enhance positive
traits that fall within a normal
statistical range but trying to push
more towards tight stream help us think
through that yes so so that gets into
that's really the question and the
reason that's the question is that if
you think about it prenatal genetic
testing and selective implantation of
embryos is a subtractive technique so
it's the minus sign
by minus sign I mean you can take
information that's already present and
you can decide not to implant certain
embryos you can subtract away
information that's already present but
there's no plus sign there in other
words you can't add to information that
moment or sperm and egg I should say
have brought into an embryo there's no
way you can add information to it
there's only you have what you have you
can select some variants where you can
you can subtract the one thing that gene
editing and particularly Chris Perl or
these techniques allow you to do is they
allow you to add which with no amount of
prenatal genetic testing and selective
implantation will allow you to do they
CRISPR or gene editing techniques allow
you to actually potentially add
information it's complicated it's not
clear whether we can do it easily so
that's the one crucial difference so
gene editing that the real test of gene
editing I think we'll ride on questions
of enhancement and addition of
information right now the number of
genetic low side the number of variants
where we definitively know that adding
information is going to be therapeutic
or beneficial are very few my suspicion
is that we will find more my suspicion
is that we will find more and more and
my suspicion is that we will begin to
tamper with them more and more I'll give
you one example again going back to
height I don't care very much about
height by the way I'm just using this as
an example of of what could and what the
concerns are so if you look back at that
curve that I just showed you it turns
out that about 50 60 70 80 at hundred
determinants that would have small range
effects on human height that can be
relatively comforting to some people
like me because you say that the number
of the variation is so great that it's a
little unlike we can predict so I can
tell you you know you can sequence here
you can send your
Charles genome 2 somewhere or the other
they can sequence it and you'll get some
information that's fit out and says this
child will be this tall I would say that
it's a little bit complicated to act on
that information but it's also true what
was surprisingly true which we didn't
know before is that there are some
alleles that we now know have
disproportionate effects on height so
with some small genetic variance they're
rare in human populations there and this
is going to be true for other diseases
too other traits - they're rare in human
population but some of them might govern
one and a half centimeters two
centimeters three centimeters of height
how do we know this well we know in
cases of severe trade-off so Marfan
syndrome right you have a severe
trade-off you get terrifying diseases
but on the other hand not bad on the
hand at the hand and on the other hand
you also get three four centimeters of
height so those are going to become
really interesting important nodes
because you could say to yourself now I
can really change one thing two things
three things and get my two centimeters
three centimeters the big question is
can you do that without compromising
fundamental pieces of human physiology
in Marfan's we know it's a terrible
compromise no one would take that
compromise but maybe there are the
things there are genetic variants where
they switch from one variant to another
variant gets you two and a half
centimeters the question is will we
[Music]
accept enhancing those will be accept
enhancing them when all the other
determinants are pushing in the other
direction in other words someone has
familial genetic propensity for short
stature should we say to those people
you know you have you have all this
other genetic information where the
chances are there's no way I can use
genetic selection because of the number
of complexities but I will but by using
this a genetic variant in a very
dominant that has a dominant influence
I will now override these with with with
with gene editing
I think that's really interesting in
complex universe people don't think
about it because again you know we're
still talking at we're still focused on
the very base level of this conversation
we're just ascending to deep learning
we're just ascending to understanding
how rare variants can influence features
more deeply than we had previously
anticipated though so that's what if you
were if you leave this room that's one
of the conversations you need to be
having with yourself who is that
it is not just gene editing I'm going
I'm repeating the point that I just made
it's not gene editing that's the real
crux here it's what happens afterwards
the layer of technology is just like a
child learns it's the layer of
technologies that interposes between
gene editing and the next step finding
rare gene variants using deep learning
and other techniques computational
techniques that will reveal rare
variants of genes where you have
disproportional influence on a feature
using deep learning to isolate features
of human being of human behavior traits
biology that were otherwise
imperceptible to our standard
computational that next layer is is a
make-or-break layer in drawing this
evening to a close I want to help the
audience see the future and I'd like to
sleep - well you can't see it on PBS
next year there's a Ken Burns
documentary based on the gene of Francis
Collins director of the NIH will play a
prominent role along with dr. mukajee so
it's something for us to look forward to
this is part of a trilogy of damper of
all maladies your biography of cancer is
volume 1 this is volume 2 and you will
be writing a volume 3 on immunology in
the future so we should look for that
you sure yeah
encourage you to yeah so the way that
are connected bernie day so you know
it's the altered self the self and the
non-self foreign self so that's how the
three are connected so please join me in
thanking dr.
you